Minutes for the JSR 224 telcon on 3rd June, 2004.

1. Roll Call, scribe for minutes selected from attached list.

n	ATG	Jim Frost
n	BEA Systems 	Manoj Cheenath 
n	Cap Gemini	Alastair Harwood 
n	DevelopMentor	Kevin Jones
n	IBM	Richard Sitze
n	IBM	Russell Butek
n	Intalio	Sebastien Sahuc 
n	IONA Technologies PLC 	Daniel Kulp 
n	Motorola 	Rahul Sharma 
n	Nokia	Srividya Natarajan
R	Novell, Inc. 	Bjarne Rasmussen 
n	NTT Data Corp	Toshiyuki Kimura 
y	Oracle	Sunil Kunisetty
n	Pramati	Rajiv Shivane
n	SAP AG 	Chavdar Baikov 
n	SeeBeyond Technology Corp. 	Ugo Corda
y	Sonic	Glen Daniels
n	Sosnoski Software	Dennis Sosnoski
y	Sun	Marc Hadley
y	Sun	Roberto Chinnici
y	Sun	Doug Kohlert
n	Tmax Soft	Changshin Lee
n	Trifork	Claus Nyhus Christensen 
n	WebMethods Corporation 	Christopher St. John

Marc to scribe

2. Agenda Review and AOB

AOB: Interest in an informal get together at JavaOne ? Perhaps arrange around the JAX-RPC BOF. Marc will send details to EG mailing list.


3. Approval of May 27th telcon minutes

See https://jsr224.dev.java.net/meetings/Minutes20040527.txt

Approved.


4. Review action items

See https://jsr224.dev.java.net/

None at present


5. Review of latest draft

See https://jsr224.dev.java.net/drafts/spec20040520.pdf
and https://jsr224.dev.java.net/drafts/javadoc20040520.zip

Comments from Bjarne:

- Section 3.3, 5th bullet: do we need this restriction? We could
alternatively just say these are not mapped.

Will create an issue for this.

- Chapter 3: I think we miss describing how wsdl:service is created?

Will create an issue for this but not chnage current draft.

- Section 4.1.1: I think we need a property capacity. As an aside, I
personally dislike having system properties as the sole mechanism for
factories since it assumes that everything that uses a particular
classloader uses the same factory. We have several cases where this is
not the case. I'd rather have a version of newInstance that takes
properties, and where one of the properties could in fact be
javax.xml.rpc.ServiceFactory. With only a system property available, you
can't use multiple factories in a thread-safe manner unless you
hard-code the implementation class.

Already a note in the spec about this, will revisit after early draft
review comments.

- Can we add a comment after the examples in 4.7.6.3 and 4.7.6.4 that
this could also be done using data binding?

Will add these comments prior to draft publication

- Chapter 5: Didn't we at some point have an API to extract a header
in a type-safe manner? Something like this in LogicalMessageContext:
   Source getHeader(QName header);
   Object getHeader(QName header, JAXBContext context);
   
These were overlooked, will add these prior to publication

- Can we rename closeMEP to close? (my eyes hurt ...)

Agreed to rename to "close" prior to publication

Comments from Glen

- Concern re requiring J2SE 1.5. Glen will look back though message
archive and meeting minutes to review previous discussion of this.

- Handler ordering. Would be useful to be able to intersperse logical
handlers with protocol handlers.

Marc/Roberto explained reason for current ordering is to allow
integration with JSR 208.

Will add note to draft requesting feedback on the current ordering
proposal and noting the desire to be able to mix types.

- Handler ordering. Might be easier to understand if order was different
on client and server - i.e. on client first handler is first for
outbound messages and last for inbound but on server first handler is
first for inbound messages and last for outbound messages.

Some discussion about whether this was easier to understand or not,
particularly with respect to more complex message exchange patterns.

Will leave as is for now.

- Multiple messages in the message context. Might be easier for handlers
if the message context contained both request and response messages
rather than just a single message.

Will create an issue for this.

Marc will produce two versions of draft incorporating all agreed chnages
to date. One version will contain chnagebars from May 20 draft, the
other will be a clean version.

No objection to submitting clean version to JCP for early draft review.

