JAX-RPC 2.0 EG Conference Call 2/10/2005.

1. Roll Call.

Sun: Marc Hadley, Roberto Chinnici, Doug Kohlert
Oracle: Sunil Kunisetty, Jeff Mischkinsky, Bill Jones, Ekkehard ?
IBM: Richard Sitze, Jim Knutsen
SAP: Chavdar Baikov

2. Agenda Review and AOB

Reviewed and no other business.

3. Proposal to rename JAX-RPC

(I didn't capture detailed minutes, the below is an attempt to capture
the sense of the discussion rather than a verbatim record).

Roberto reviewed the proposal briefly and then the floor was opened for
questions and comments.

We discussed the difficulty in migrating applications from JAX-RPC 1.1
to JAX-RPC 2.0/JAX-WS 1.0. Migration is an important consideration for
existing customers and there is concern that the renaming might be
percieved as abandoning existing users of JAX-RPC. We discussed some
aspects of migration that are orthogonal to the renaming issue. We also
referred back to the JSR and initial versions of the specification to
demonstrate that source compatibility has always been a non-goal of the
JSR.

Richard proposed an alternative approach that would involve maintaining
the existing JAX-RPC 1.1 binding but offering a way of using alternative
data binding technologies like JAXB. It was pointed out that one of the
primary drivers for JAX-RPC 2.0 was integration with JAXB and unifying
data binding. We also discussed the complexity of such an approach and
the likelyhood that the resulting specification would become a
monstrosity.

Sunil described his proposal to effectively abandon JAX-RPC 2.0 work in
favour of a maintenance-release like JAX-RPC 1.5. There was a counter
suggestion to do the renaming as proposed and then once JAX-WS was
complete to work on a maintenance release of JAX-RPC 1.1 to backport
some of the new features in JAX-WS like asychrony.

There was a suggestion to to further analyze the migration problem to
determine how the renaming proposal affects things compared to the
status quo. Sunil took an action to sketch out some migration scenarios
for the EG to work on after the telcon.

There seemed to be a general sense of agreement that the proposal makes
sense from a technical and marketing standpoint but that there are
concerns around migration and customer perception.