Minutes of JAXB 2.0/JAXRPC 2.0 EG joint concall, Tues Aug 24, 2004

Also posted at:
https://jsr222.dev.java.net/files/documents/919/6606/aug-24-2004.txt

1. Roll call

2. Joint F2F dates
  The suggested dates were :
  - Oct 13, 14, 15 for JAXB 2.0 EG.
  - 1/2 day overlap ( probably Thursday )

3. Attachment Proposal

  Section by section review of Marc's summary of attachment proposal:
  - two attachments proposals but for this concall focus on the
    proposal related to databinding.
  - 3 attachments to support
    i.  WS-I AP 1.0 with swaRef
    ii. W3C MTOM without media type information
    iii. W3C MTOM with media type information

  a. WS-I AP 1.0 defines two profiles
     - WSDL mime binding (no impact on JAXB)
     - swaref type

  b. WS-I AP 1.0 with swaRef:
     - goal of binding is to hide the URI (in swaRef)and provide a
       useful class to the Java programmer.
     - bind to DataHandler class since the latter provides a way to
       deal with multiple binary types.
     - using just WS-I that is about as far as we can go.

     Sanjay Patil: Issue: losing a URI reference.
     Sanjay Patil to write up proposal.

  c. WS-I AP 1.0 with MTOM facilities
     - MTOM facilities allow the use of media type for a more strongly
       typed binding.
     - Use of MTOM facilities is allowed within the WS-I spec.
     - Since the proposal was sent, Roberto pointed out that the WSDL
       2.0 WG meeting changed the syntax of media type from <appinfo> to
       an attribute. However, the basic principal (i.e. specification
       of the expected media type).

     - ISSUE: hint semantics of <xmlmime:expectedMediaType>
       i. semantics currently defined as a hint in the specification.
       ii. choices for JAXB
           - ingore hint and bind to DataHandler
           - honor hint and bind to suitable Java type; error if
             anything else is received.
       iii. raised as an issue with the specification's author.
       Umit: will be taken up in the WSDL working group.
             also suggested an alternate approach. A customization
             could be provided to let the application take
             responsiblity for treating as a hint or not.

   d. MTOM
      - moved to Candidate Recommendation => pretty much done
      - expect full Recommendation by year end.
      - extracts binary64 blobs and serialize either inline or an
        attachment.
        - conserves space, computing power
        - two ways: inline binary

   e. Interfacing between JAXB and JAXRPC
      - JAXB 2.0 needs to define an interface implemented by
        clients.
      - XOP spec designed to be used separate from WSDL and SOAP.
      - so interfaces defined in JAXB 2.0 is useful for other xop
        clients outside of JAX-RPC 2.0

   Dennis: can this be practically used out of SOAP ?
   Marc: Yes; e.g. over HTTP rather than over SOAP.

   Umit: No consideration given to providing databinding access to
         attachments that are not referenced from type definition.
         - Agreed use case won't be allowed.
         - log as an issue and close.

   Umit: From a data binding perspective all attachments should be
         available.
   Marc: Streaming issue; assume all attachments are available.
   Umit: agreed.

   - Further discussion:
     - at F2F
     - via email ; Marc can see the JAXB 2.0 EG mail ; so he will
       forward the email to JSR 224 expert group mail alias.

Meeting adjourned.

Attendees:

X = Present
- = absent
R = Regrets

-   Anjana Manian       Oracle
-   Arnaud Blandin      Intalio
X   Bjarne Rasmussen    Novell,Inc.
X   Chavdar Baikov      SAP
-   Christopher Fry     BEA
-   Radu Preotiuc-Pietro BEA
X   Dennis Sosnoksi     Individual
-   Ed Merks            IBM
-   Keith Visco         Intalio
X   Kohsuke Kawaguchi   SUN
X   Mette Hedin         Individual
-   Russell Butek       IBM
-   Sravan Kumar        Pramati
-   Srividya Rajagopalan Nokia
-   Stefan Wachter      Individual
X   Steve Perry         Fidelity Information Services
-   Stephen Brodsky     IBM
X   Scott Ziegler       BEA
X   Umit  Yalcinalp     Oracle
-   Yann  Raoul         Micropolis-univers
-   Glen Daniels        Sonic Software
-   Adinarayana Sakala  IONA
-   Jongjin Choi        Tmax Soft Inc.
X   Zulfi Umrani        Novell

X   Joe Fialli          Sun
X   Sekhar Vajjhala     Sun

JAX-RPC 2.0-only EG members
X   Marc Hadley         Sun
X   Roberto Chinnici    Sun
X   Manoj Cheenath      BEA
X   Sunil Kunisetty     Oracle
X   Ugo Corda   SeeBeyond Technology Corp.

X   Sanjay Patil         SAP

