JSR 224 EG Meeting Minutes 9/25

1. Roll call

Present

Manoj Cheenath 	BEA Systems
Russell Butek	IBM
Daniel Kulp 	IONA Technologies PLC
Bjarne Rasmussen 	Novell, Inc.
Sunil Kunisetty	Oracle
Chavdar Baikov 	SAP AG
Dennis Sosnoski	Individual
Marc Hadley	Sun
Roberto Chinicci	Sun
Doug Kohlert	Sun
Prasad Yendluri 	WebMethods Corporation

Regrets

JaeWoong Chung (TMaxSoft)

Absent

Jim Frost	ATG
Rahul Sharma 	Motorola
Rajiv Shivane	Pramati
Alan Davies 	SeeBeyond Technology Corp.
Glen Daniels	Sonic

2. Agenda bashing and AOB

No AOB

3. Introductions

Those present introduced themselves.

4. JCP process and milestones

Brief description of the JCP process, see http://www.jcp.org/en/procedures/jcp2#1.
    

5. EG interactions

  - Meeting arrangements and etiquette

Weekly meeting at 12 noon pacific on Thursdays.
No meeting next week becuase of clash with JCP training.
Send regrets to the mailing list when unable to attend.
Assign alternate if protracted absence
Identify yourself before speaking while we learn each others voices
One speaker at a time
Rotating secretary duties

  - Use of mailing list

Conduct main business on jcp.org mailing list
Don't wait for telcons to raise issues, give feedback etc
We'll try to air all issues on the mailing list before discussing in meetings - make faster progress that way.

  - Java.net: Have a private JSR 224 project there.
  
each EG member to create java.net account and send Marc their user ID (got to www.java.net and click the register link in the top left of the page).
we'll manage an issues list there (bugzilla)
we'll manage action item list there
post drafts, meeting minutes there
wiki coming in Nov

  - Other EGs:

This JSR is tightly linked to sever others:

JSR 222 (JAXB): Russel, Chavdar, Sunil, Dennis, Bjarne all either in the JAXB EG or closely monitoring. 
JSR 181 (WS Metadata): Manoj is monitoring, we want to align with the work in this JSR
JSR 109 (WS for J2EE): Sunil asked about the plan for 109, will it be updated to align with JAX-RPC 2.0 ? 

ACTION: Russell to talk to Jim Knutson and report back on future plans for JSR-109.

6. Goals, non-goals, requirements

JAXB

We want to push data binding into JAXB. The customization mechanism
in JAXB will be made available, we won't expose a new one.

Manoj: JAXB doesn't talk about SOAP types. How are we going to deal with
SOAP types then?

Marc: I have a non-goal of support for SOAP encoding, postpone discussion of this till we get to that.

Chavdar: Good idea to leave serialization support to JAXB. It avoids duplication.

Dan: What's the timeline for JAXB 2.0?

Marc: Similar to JAX-RPC, dependency is one way from JAX-RPC to JAXB.

Dan: Concern about a JAXB 3.0 after a JAXB 2.0 and future interactions between
the JSRs.

Marc: Not aware of any plan for JAXB 3.0 immediately after that.

Bjarne: Is backward compatibility a goal?

Marc: It's currently listed as a non-goal. Currently JAX-RPC and JAXB use different bindings; if we require backward compatibility, we end up with two data bindings. It should be possible to customize the binding and recover the previous mapping.

Roberto: In the context of J2EE 1.5, we'll have to support J2EE 1.4 apps, which
use JAX-RPC 1.1.

SOAP 1.2

Add support for SOAP 1.2; keep supporting the 1.1 versions.

Prasad: Would MTOM be in scope?

Marc: Unclear when it'll be finalized. Can't hold JAX-RPC to wait for MTOM if
it's delayed.

WSDL 1.2

Add support for WSDL 1.2. The next working draft will be called "WSDL 2.0".

??: What's the timeline for WSDL 1.2?

Roberto: I expect recommendation in the second half of 2004. The abstract portion is quite firm, although there are some new features being discussed (e.g. service references).

Marc: You can only remove things from the spec after CR.

WS-I BP 1.1

Technical work is done, but discussions at the board level on how to publish it. Don't expect a schedule problem with it.

Sunil: We need to support 1.1. We also want better support for 1.0. Also
the ability to step outside of the BP envelope.

Marc: By default we expect to get BP 1.0 conformance.

ACTION: Sunil to send mail on his "outside the BP envelope" requirement.

No call next week because it conflicts with a JCP event.

Meeting adjourned.
