JSR 224 Meeting Minutes 10/09

1.	Roll Call, scribe for minutes selected from attached list.

Present

ATG	Jim Frost
BEA Systems 	Manoj Cheenath
IBM	Russell Butet
IONA Technologies PLC 	Daniel Kulp
Oracle	Sunil Kunisetty
SAP AG 	Chavdar Baikov
SeeBeyond Technology Corp. 	Alan Davies
Sosnoski Software	Dennis Sosnoski
Sun	Marc Hadley
Sun	Roberto Chinnici
Sun	Doug Kohlert

Regrets
WebMethods Corporation 	Prasad Yendluri

Absent
Motorola 	Rahul Sharma
Novell, Inc. 	Bjarne Rasmussen
Pramati	Rajiv Shivane
Sonic	Glen Daniels
Tmax Soft	JaeWoong Chung

a.	Manoj to scribe

2.	Agenda Review and AOB
a.	No AOB

3.	Approval of Sept 25th telcon minutes
a.	Sept 25th telcon minutes approved

4.	Review action items
a.	Russel talked to 109 spec lead. There will be a new JSR after JSR 109. Details unknown.
b.	Sunil posted requirements to the EG mailing list.

5.	Goals Discussion

a.	JSR 181 and JAX-RPC
i.     Russel: two specs defining web service annotations.
ii.     Russel: V2 must not redefine 181 annotations
iii.     Marc: (action item) talk to 181 lead for the spec time line

b.	JSR 109 and JAX-RPC

i.     Russel: relationship between 109 mapping info – V2 annotations unclear
ii.     Russel: rewrite Java-WSDL mapping section of the V2 goals

c.	Messaging

i.     Russel: Too much messaging is not in scope for V2, ok with explanation posted to EG mailing list.

d.	J2SE

i.     Russel: ok with the explanation posted to the EG mailing list.

e.	Session Management

i.     Dennis: Similar to .Net based of HTTP cookies, or SOAP Headers
ii.     Marc: Which SOAP header? There are no standard SOAP headers yet.
iii.     Marc: V2 will define high level APIs without going in to the details of transport/protocol bindings.

f.	1.1 Issues

i.     Russel: May not be in the goals.
ii.     Marc: will go through issue posted and work out which to add to bugtraq on our website and which to add as requirements.

g.	Async Operations

i.     Sunil: Only client side support?
ii.     Sunil: Polling v/s callback?
iii.     Sunil: correlation ID?
iv.     Sunil: can send a proposal next month.

h.	List of Non-Http transports being planned

i.     Sunil: What all transports? – JMS, SMTP
ii.     Sunil: prefer JMS
iii.     Sunil: V2 APIs must not have any direct dependency of HTTP.

i.	Relationship with JSR 208

i.     Marc: (action item) contact 208 spec lead
ii.     Sunil: V2 must use the security SPI defined by 208
iii.     Marc: V2 must not define soap headers but only APIs and properties.

j.	Session Management

i.     See e, above.

k.	Enhanced support for Security

i.     Marc: JSR 183 is delayed for 104/105
ii.     Marc: not sure when it will be get going
iii.     Marc: transport level security is enough?
iv.     Jim: No API support in V1 to get to transport level details
v.     Marc: something we need to look at when we address the goal to improve the transport separation, will capture as a requirement.

l.	Support for Reliable Messaging

i.     Sunil: need APIs/properties for RM
ii.     Sunil: can post proposal in a month
iii.     Marc: RM can be done through handlers
iv.     Marc: RM can be a good use case for handlers.
v.     Marc: So RM is not listed as a goal.
vi.     Chavdar: RM/sessions etc, needs to maintain state.
vii.     Roberto: V1 client stubs are already statefull due to properties.
viii.     Marc: V2 must deal with stateful service, related to session support discussed above.

m.	Enhanced Header apis (setHeader/getHeaders/clearHeader rt. al.) on Stub/Call object

i.     Sunil: V2 must have user friendly APIs to access/modify headers
ii.     Sunil: Header apis will accept/return header values as un-typed DOM.
iii.     Russell: Headers for different protocols have different requirements. (eg: actor, mustUnderstand, for SOAP)
iv.     Marc: property sharing between stub/handler will reduce the need for header APIs.

n.	Enhanced Custom Serializer support

i.     Sunil: This is part of JAXB?
ii.     Marc: Yes, but serializer may not look same as V1, leave details to JAXB EG, define contract between JAXB and JAXRPC.

o.	Backward binary compatibility of runtime implementations

i.     Sunil: J2EE 1.4 ear/war file must be deployed on a server that supports V2 without modification.
ii.     Marc: this is a J2EE level requirement
iii.     Marc: V2 must not do anything that breaks this requirement.
iv.     Marc: (action item) will split this into goal and non-goal.

p.	The DII APIs need to be enhanced

i.     Sunil: better DII APIs, with flexible binding support
ii.     Sunil: will post a proposal next month  

q.	Support for global handlers

i.     Sunil: No support for this in J2EE
ii.     Roberto: This is related to deployment and packaging. Out of scope for V2.

r.	Support for transport handlers

i.     Sunil: need handlers at transport level: JMS, HTTP
ii.     Marc: will discuss this as part of the goal to improve transport separation.

s.	WS-I conformance model

i.     Sunil: Web service that go outside BP must be supported
ii.     Sunil: There must be some option (DD/annotation) to turn off BP conformance.
iii.     Marc: EG to study Sunil proposal, start discussion on mailing list.


Meeting adjourned


t.	Nillable types issue

i.     (not discussed)

u.	Sealing handler chains

i.     (not discussed)

 

 

 

 

