1. Roll Call, scribe for minutes selected from attached list.

Y	ATG	Jim Frost
Y	BEA Systems 	Manoj Cheenath 
Y	IBM	Russell Butek
Y	IONA Technologies PLC 	Daniel Kulp 
N	Motorola 	Rahul Sharma 
Y	Novell, Inc. 	Bjarne Rasmussen 
Y	NTT Data Corp	Toshiyuki Kimura 
R	Oracle	Sunil Kunisetty
N	Pramati	Rajiv Shivane
Y	SAP AG 	Chavdar Baikov 
N	SeeBeyond Technology Corp. 	Alan Davies 
N	Sonic	Glen Daniels
Y	Sosnoski Software	Dennis Sosnoski
Y	Sun	Marc Hadley
Y	Sun	Roberto Chinnici
Y	Sun	Doug Kohlert
N	Tmax Soft	JaeWoong Chung
N	WebMethods Corporation 	Prasad Yendluri 

Daniel to scribe.

2. Agenda Review and AOB

Reviewed and no additional business.

3. Approval of Oct 23rd telcon minutes

All approved with the caveat of Chavdar mentioned missing data that Marc
will add.

4. Review action items

* Marc to create a new issue for doc/lit wrapped impact on JAXB. - done

* Dennis to raise the issue of exception->XML mapping with JAXB. Issue
has been raised with JAXB.  Current discussion is part of the custom
bindings stuff that is being discussed.

* Chavdar to start mail thread on mapping from exceptions to SOAP fault
text and code.  Done - see below

* Roberto will look into J2EE 1.4 spec to see whether we can get around
the Serializable requirement. No relaxing of requirement of serializable
on remote interfaces, but web service interface is a peer. This item is
related to how the marker is java.rmi.Remote, but we don't follow the
symantics of rmi completely.  This is already broken in 1.1 so we may be
off the hook. Recommend that we should furthur discuss the option of
requiring tools to generate objects that are compatible with section 
5.4.2.    Leave action item open to furthur research and discuss this.


Sunil to draft concrete proposal for JAX-RPC changes required to move
from implicit to explicit WS-I conformance.  -pending

Sunil to send proposal for async client API - due early Nov. -pending

Sunil to send proposal for enhanced DII API - due early Nov. -pending


New action item for Toshiyuki related to async messaging.


5. Accessing Fault String/Code for Service specific faults.
http://archives.java.sun.com/cgi-bin/wa?A2=ind0310&L=jsr-224-eg&F=&S=&X=
688BBF345EAD4DE17C&P=3277

First questions regarding setting "cause" for client.  No-one objected.

There is an issue of possible duplication of information in the details
object and with the stuff in the service specific exception.

Proposal to keep duplicated information on client side to allow for
"generic" exception handling and always now where the information is in
place.

Seems OK to have the JAX-RPC runtime add addition "cause" to client
exception that the server did not provide.

Another proposal to use the revamped handler framework to fill in
protocol specific fault information based on interfaces.

Proposal by Marc to create a generic "Properties" backed exception with
possible protocol specific subclasses with convienience accessors.  Marc
will send out a formal proposal.


6. Goal prioritization results

Primary: JAXB - general thought is this will work out as we walk through
the current bindings in the spec.  Can start on this now. SOAP 1.2 -
same as JAXB WSDL 1.2 - same as JAXB.   UPDATE: Abstract side seems to
be done.   They are concentrating on the bindings. Probably can get
started working on this within a month or so. WS-I 1.1 - Spec still in
limbo trying to get published.  Take a "wait and see" appoach as to when
we can see it.

Secondary: Improved Handler Framework - add Russell action item to make
a proposal and send it around. Non-HTTP Transports and Session
Management - related to handler framework as they could be implemented
with handlers


7. Admin: Marc is travelling for two weeks.  Next meeting will be the
20th.  No meeting on the 27th.


8.  New action items from this meeting Russell: proposal about new
handler framework Marc: proposal about generic "Properties" backed
exception Toshiyuki: proposal related to async messaging Roberto: update
issue 8


